---
title: 'Review: From Beirut to Jerusalem'
date: 2022-07-10
permalink: /posts/2022/07/review_beiruttojerusalem/
tags:
  - book review
  - non-fiction
---

**Suggestion: Book to read if you're interested in the topic**

After reading multiple news articles about the ongoing Israel-Palestine conflict through Western media, I picked up this book through a recommendation from a friend to better understand what is happening between the two neighbouring entities. If you're in a similar position to which I was in, I would definitely recommend this book as an introduction to the region and the modern reason behind this conflict.

## Review

### Summary
The book begins with a brief historical overview into the region: the initial governance under the Ottoman empire, the subsequent break-up into (arbitrary) boundaries by the victors of World War 2, and the subsequent independence and socio-economic status of the Middle Eastern region. The author then moves onto the main content of the book: his personal recollection and analysis of the crises in Lebanon and Israel in the 1980s; a period of civil, ideological, and terrifyingly horrific wars. The final few chapters becomes more targeted and discusses the uncertain relation between the state of Israel, the Jews in the state as well as America, and how religion fits into the picture. The author also touches on how this relation has led to Western media publishing exaggerated reports about Israel. At the very end, he discusses what he believes are some possible avenues that Palestine and Israel can achieve peace, and what would be necessary to make this come to reality.

### Readability
For such a complex topic such as the Palestine-Israel conflict, which goes back many centuries, the author explains the modern side of the conflict extremely fairly and in an understandable manner. The book is delivered from a very personal viewpoint, which I did not find to be particularly biased towards one side or the other; in fact, he expresses deep disappointment and deep pride and trust in both parties involved. In this sense I found the author's account fair, in that he truly seems to wish for the best for everyone involved. The liberal use of clips of personal interviews, the vivid imaginary of the settings so close to and in the midst of war, and the rather hilarious and somehow fitting analogy of Palestine and Israel to a couple, really helped me understand where and how this conflict occurred during the 1980s. Perhaps the part I appreciated the most about his writing is the absence of any kind of religious  predisposition. This really allowed a non-believer like me to partially step into the shoe of a religious person in a religious society, and at the very least attempt to make some sense of the atrocities that occurred.

This book does somewhat assume that you are familiar with some of the main characters in the Palestine-Israel conflict during the 1980s. This is not too much of concern since each of the key figures are indeed introduced individually later in the book, but it would have helped to be more familiar with some names and their roles during this time. The later few chapters on American Jews and how they fit into the state of Israel and the religion of Judaism (and vice-versa) I found somewhat irrelevant for someone in neither country nor religion. There are also some references to the nearby Arab countries (Egypt, Iran, Jordan and Syria especially) and their internal conflicts and relations to Israel and Lebanon, which are not very elaborated upon. The lack of detail is fair (after all, the book is about Palestine and Israel, and not a history textbook on the region) and I didn't find myself needing to know these things to understand the book. But I believe knowing about them, or reading about them afterwards, would be helpful in better understanding the contents.

### Personal Thoughts
Having never read about the history of Middle East before, this book has been an eye-opener. I knew, from chance news articles, that there were some atrocities occurring there from the 2010s till today. But I was not prepared to read about the hideous crimes against humanity that both Palestinians and Israelis have inflicted upon each other and among themselves. The terrorist attacks. The silent massacre of Palestinians by Palestinians under the unseeing eye of Israel, whose actions were never punished. The extermination of the population of an entire city, followed by the complete physical demolition of the same city. The everyday humiliation of the Palestinians living in the occupied West Bank and Gaza by the Israel government, and an equally unrelenting attacks by radicals on Israel, that continues to this day. There is so much horror, so many atrocities, so much inhumanity that I cannot fathom how these things could even happen.

Upon reading about all these things, and being a non-religious person myself, I found myself all too easily placing the blame for all this insanity on religion itself. However, the author, through his interviews of key figures and normal citizens, analysis of politics, and his own religious identity, convinced me that religion is not wholly to blame. Every single entity that had a part to play in these two societies' histories each share some of the blame. But the combination of ultra-orthodox religious cults, together with power-seeking people in leadership positions, do seem to have played a major part in the conflict that continues to this day.

In the new preface released with the 2012 edition of the book, the author mentions how things have not changed but yet completely changed from the initial publication in 1989. It was completely changed in the sense that between 1989 and 2012, the first proper peace accord was agreed upon between Palestine and Israel. However, nothing has changed in that after the break down of the peace accord with the assassination of the Israeli PM, no one else has stepped up to take up the baton to peace. I can only wonder what the author would think about the Palestine-Israel conflict today: with continuous attacks from Hamas, an Israeli police that tried to forcefully break up the funeral of a killed American-Jewish journalist, and what seems like a lack of proper, peace-wanting leadership from both parties.

As mentioned in the book, the Western media has had shown a tendency, in the past, to over-report on the conflict in the region due to its strong relation to Christianity. This would be something important to keep in mind as one leaves this book behind and go on to continue reading about the conflict on such Western media. While the conflict is real and horrific, one needs to keep in mind that there is this implicit bias in such reporting avenues; and keeping that fact in consideration while consuming news is important in understanding how serious a certain story truly is.

This post will show up by default. To disable scheduling of future posts, edit `config.yml` and set `future: false`. 
